# 1621787376 The-Win-Without-Pitching-Manifesto

Enns B. (March 13, 2019). The Win Without Pitching Manifesto. Gegen Press

Location: 61    
We must choose a focus Then articulate that focus via a consistent claim of
expertise And finally, we must work to add the missing skills, capabilities and
processes necessary to support our new claim.

Location: 85   
It is important, therefore, that we enter the engagement with as much control as
possible. Indeed, business development can be viewed as the polite battle for
control.

Location: 226   
Presenting is a tool of swaying, while conversing is a tool of weighing. Through
the former we try to convince people to hire us. Through the latter we try to
determine if both parties would be well served by working together.

Location: 240    
While our mission is to position, our objective at each and every interaction in
the buying cycle is simply to see if there is a fit between the client’s need
and our expertise suitable enough to take a next step. That’s it. It is not our
objective to sell, convince or persuade. It is simply to determine if there
exists a fit suitable enough to merit a next step. Our mission is to position;
our objective is to determine a fit.

Location: 272    
But how many times have we proceeded based on the client’s self-diagnosis only
to discover that it was wrong? How many times has the client come to us stating,
“I need X,” only for us to discover that he needed Y?
                
Location: 352    
Making things and selling things are the two basic functions in business. For
our business to succeed we must succeed at both.

Location: 363    
selling is about determining a fit between the buyer’s need and the seller’s
supply (our very objective) and then facilitating a next step.

Location: 381    
He moves from unaware of his problem or opportunity, to being interested in
considering the opportunity, and finally, to intent on acting on it. As he
progresses in this manner, our role must change from one of helping, to
inspiring, and ultimately to reassuring.

Location: 593    
By saying no we will give power and credibility to our yes.

Location: 609    
We will not win every opportunity, nor do we need to.

Location: 629    
No is the second best answer we can hear. If the answer is no, we want to hear
it as soon as possible, before we and the client unnecessarily waste valuable
resources. When an opportunity first arises, therefore, we try to see if we can
kill it.

Location: 634    
Our inclination is to avoid the questions to which we think we may not like the
answers, but here again we must learn to fight our tendencies, demonstrate the
selectivity and efficiency of the expert and march headlong into these
conversations in pursuit of no.

Location: 652   
Our claim of expertise should be a lot narrower than the sum of our
capabilities.

Location: 664   
Who are we without our passion?

Location: 673   
Expertise forces selectivity.

Location: 720   
We need not be smarter or more creative than our competition, only more focused.

Location: 749   
We build a culture of continuous learning by hiring for skill, by developing it
through training, by empowering our people to form their own professional
development plans that we will approve and fund, by holding them accountable to
these plans, and, most importantly, by leading with our own example. We go
first, and set the example of pace and determination required to be part of our
enterprise.

Location: 902   
As experts, we will not discount with new clients today for the opportunity to
make money tomorrow. We will save the use of discounts for our best and longest
serving clients at times when they need our support.

Location: 905   
By allowing an engagement with a new client to begin unprofitably, we set up
what is almost certain to be a relationship of mutual discontent.

Location: 925   
We Put it in Writing → Second, we must ensure that such discounts are clearly
identified in all written documentation, including contracts, estimates and
invoices, in order to remind the client of the true value of our services. Our
failure to abide by this rule will almost certainly cost us in the future as the
client “forgets” this proper value and references only what he previously paid.
By recording our discount in all price documentation in this way, we ensure that
such a discount does not set a precedent for new pricing moving forward.

Location: 941   
In the early days of a firm, there can sometimes be little foundation on which
to build expertise. Here, pro bono – or even deeply discounted work within the
selected field of focus – might be required to build that expertise. In these
cases, there is no shame in being upfront with a prospective client about
working cheaply or for free to amass expertise. Such an approach is valid, for a
period of time. If we truly are trading profit for expertise building, then we
will be honest and direct with our client about it. To do it quietly is to
employ the generalist tactic of competing on price.

Location: 956    
Our premium pricing will cost us clients from time to time; but if we are not
losing business on price occasionally, then we are not charging enough.

# Links
- [1621753249-biblio.md](1621753249-biblio.md)
- [1621753249-biblio.md](1621753249-biblio.md)
